The methods we covered in the last section all have something in common.
They are used to create and manage a single promise.
The methods we are going to learn next,
get ready for it, are used when working with multiple promises at the same time.
If your brain just freaked out a little bit,
that's okay. Don't panic.
We're going to take it slow. Before we look at any new methods,
let's set up a scenario.
In fact, let's go back to the library scenario.
I'm the kind of person that always has a list of books,
books that I want to read but haven't had time to.
But I'm going on a trip and I know that I will have some time to read.
I go to the library with my list of books.
I want to borrow multiple books for this trip,
so I gave the librarian my list of books to see which are available.
By requesting five books,
I create five promises.
Each book I requested will either be available or not.
But I don't want the librarian to answer me five separate times.
Instead, I want to know when the librarian has finished looking up all the books.
Here's where our first multi-promise management method comes into play.
Promise.allSettled.
The allSettled method lets you look at
the results of many promises all at once in an array.
Take a look at this example code using Promise.allSettled.
I have an array of promises that I'm passing to the Promise.allSettled method.
Notice that these aren't functions containing promises,
they are just plain promises.
When we run the code and all of the promises resolve,
you'll see that we get back a lovely array of all of our resolved promises.
If we take that one step further and console.log the value of each item in the array,
we get a list of all of the values that are the responses of each promise.
Even though each promise we passed in resolved in a different amount of time,
the Promise.allSettled method waited until each promise
fulfilled before giving back the answer in array format.
This can be incredibly convenient when you
need to keep an eye on lots of promises at once.
But in the real world,
perhaps all of these promises won't resolve.
What happens then? What if one of the books I want is not available?
In this new code example,
I've updated book2 to reject, instead of resolving.
Let's see what effect that has on the program when we run it.
Here I can see that I get the same list of books back but book2 is undefined,
and if we look at all of the information that allSettled gives us back for these books,
we can see that the status was rejected instead of being fulfilled.
We can also see that when allSettled has a rejected status,
instead of giving a value,
it gives a reason for the failure.
This difference in properties that are given
back to you by allSettled means that it's really
easy to pick apart the list and find
which promise is resolved and which promise is rejected.
It can be really handy for when you need to get
an understanding of what happened to a bunch of promises.